Java math, date, string,
and character are really basic,
but really helpful Java APIs.
You should expect to see a lot of this in your Java program.
If you're coming from a different programming language,
for instance, Python, C++,
you should have no problem learning them and you should be able to
solve all the quizzes and coding across easily.
Java math class is very important Java class that you can
use in future to perform mathematic task like calculation,
data analysis, and machine learning.
To use math class,
you need to import java.lang package.
All math methods are static,
so there's no need to construct it.
Here are some common methods for math class that you can use.
There really helpful, so please take a look and understand how they're used.
We have a quiz for that.
Hopefully, you can learn quickly.
Date is another useful class where you come check a date,
perform the date tasks like comparing two dates.
So Java provides the date class in the java.util package,
this package encapsulates the current date and time.
There are two constructor for date class.
One is you can construct the date without the parameter,
another one is you can construct date with the millisecond.
Here's some common method for Java date class.
You can use this method to compare two dates,
you can also use this method to get the date,
to get the time, or set the time.
Java string is a very helpful class and
string is a very important concept for all programming languages.
String is a sequence of characters.
For example, hello world.
Hello world is a sequence of all the characters, you can see that.
String is immutable which means you cannot change it once it's created.
Let's take a moment to understand what is the immutable and mutable means.
Mutable means you can change the states and fields after the object is created.
For example, StringBuilder, StringBuffer, date, and etc.
Immutable means you cannot change anything after the object is created.
For example, string, integer, long, and double.
Assuming you already know what char is,
character is a wrapper class for char which contains a single char field.
To create our char object,
you can do something like this.
You start a Character class.
You use char as the parameter for your constructor.
Character class provides really helpful method when dealing with string problems.
Sometimes you have to decompose a string and rebuild the string by using the char APIs.
So here are some really common,
really helpful character APIs you can use to solve the problem.
Now that you have learned math, date, string,
and character classes, and I hope you look at the API document and our standard.
Let's test out and see if you can finish the quizzes yourself.